INTRODUCTION:
It can, for many, seem uncomprehensible to forsee dangers from outer space - which is understandable given its enormous complexity. Because of this, a majority of people are not aware of which dangers lies just behind the atmosphere. One of these dangers are known as the Kessler Syndrome (Aka The Kessler Effekt).

The Kessler Syndrome is a scenario defined by Donald J. Kessler in 1978. The Kessler Syndrome describes the phenomenon that occours with moving objects in vaccum - objects colliding in space. In this case, it is applied to the spacetrash that orbits the earth. The syndrome explains the relations that occurs between the moving, colliding objects and how it exponentially increases the amount of objects(fragments).

Every spacetravel or satelite put into orbit is partaking in this phenomenon. Whenever something is boosted into space a lot of mass and objects are left behind, drifting in space. For every single piece, the orbits gets more and more crowded. Eventually this will make spacetravel impossible to do safely. To put it into perspective how serious this has become there is estimated to be 2.000 satelites and 600.000 other objects orbiting the earth.

SPACEMAN SPICE:
In the year 2128 the amount of space debris in the low Earth orbit (LEO) had increased to a near critical level. It had become near impossible to send anything into space due to the amount of space debris. That is why the Combined Earth Society decided to launch operation LEOCP (Low Earth Orbit Cleaning Project), which included launching multiple spaceships armed with measures to deal with any kind of debris into the LEO to combat the Kessler Syndrome.

Fast forward to 2133: We meet our protagonist of the game, Spaceman Spice, who has only just finished his training to become a Low Earth Orbit Debris Controller (LEODC), yet he is already on his way into space to replace the former overseer of the spaceship LEO Control 153. It is here that Spaceman Spice will spend the next 3 months overseeing the AI of the ship. It should be an easy job - or so he was lead to believe.


PROBLEM STATEMENT:
By using Gamification, we intend to make the player aware of The Kessler Syndrome, what it is and what potential consequences it will have upon our society if left untreated. Proceedingly we intend to suggest solutions to the problem and thus provoke a debate about the subject.

